c/apps/ownspm/README.md, before:

# Scratchpad Memories with Ownership

These applications are used for the evaluation section of the following paper:

Martin Schoeberl, Oktay Baris, Torur Biskopsto Strom, and Jens Sparso,
Scratchpad Memories with Ownership, *submitted to CASES 2018*


We use the T-CREST multicore to evaluate the shared memory with ownership.
General build instructions of T-CREST in [Main README](../../../README.md).

Before building the Patmos processor (hardware or emulator) add the following lines after `<frequency Hz="80000000"/>` in 
[altde2-115.xml](../../../hardware/config/altde2-115.xml):
```
<cores count="4" />
<cmp device="n" />
<pipeline dual="false" />
```

where the cmp device is either `1` for the TDM arbitrated shared SPM,
`5` for the SPMs with ownership, or `6` for the SPMs with multiple owners.

The number of SPMs with ownership
is currently configured to be the same as the number of processor cores.
This can be changed in `Patmos.scala`.
The individual SPMs are displaced every 64 KB, starting at the usual
address that is used for all CMP device tests (`0xE8000000`).

The C programs for the tests are found here, e.g., for the shared SPM: 
[hello_spm.c](hello_spm.c)

For other test programs set the variable `MAIN` at your compile make call.
Following test programs are available:

 * `hello_spm.c` does simple checks on a shared SPM
 * `timing.c` measures access times (using the deadline device with random delays)
 * `single_owner.c` does a multicore test on a single SPM with ownership
 * `test_owner.c` does a multicore test with two SPMs with ownership

For the evaluation section in the paper we have written several producer/consumer
based synthetic benchmarks for each configuration. The programs are
named `pc_xxx.c` for a simple producer/consumer pair for version `xxx`
and `pc_xxx_df.c` for an extended version that contains an intermediate
processor.

The experiments can be execute on the Patmos emulator of with the real
hardware on an FPGA board.

## Emulator Based Testing

To compile the emulator with the selected hardware configuration run

```bash
make emulator
```

Compile the application with

```bash
make app APP=ownspm 
```

If you want to use a different test program add the `MAIN` variable, such as

```bash
make app APP=ownspm MAIN=single_owner 
```

Both make commands lead to an `.elf` file in the `tmp` folder and can be
executed with the emulator as follows:

```bash
patemu tmp/ownspm.elf
```

## FPGA Based Tesing

To run the tests on a DE2-115 board, first connect it, 
and then from `t-crest/patmos` run 
```bash
make gen synth
```
This creates Patmos. To configure the FPGA with Patmos run
```bash
make config
```
Afterwards run:
```bash
make app download APP=ownspm 
```

This compiles and downloads a simple test for the one-way shared memory.
Change `MAIN` to the appropriate test.


## The Version of the Submitted Paper

To ensure that you have the exact version of T-CREST that we have used in the
evaluation section of the paper, use the following `git` command to checkout that version:

```bash
git checkout `git rev-list -n 1 --before="2018-04-05" master`
```

This can be done in all T-CREST repositories. However, it is most important
in `patmos`.

Commit message:

ownspm: update README info and blind it

c/apps/ownspm/README.md, after:

# Scratchpad Memories with Ownership

These applications are used for the evaluation section of the following paper:

<!---
Martin Schoeberl, Oktay Baris, Torur Biskopsto Strom, and Jens Sparso,
--->
*Blind*, Scratchpad Memories with Ownership, *submitted to CASES 2018*


We use the T-CREST multicore to evaluate the shared memory with ownership.
General build instructions of T-CREST in [Main README](../../../README.md).

Before building the Patmos processor (hardware or emulator) add the following lines after `<frequency Hz="80000000"/>` in 
[altde2-115.xml](../../../hardware/config/altde2-115.xml):
```
<cores count="4" />
<cmp device="n" />
<pipeline dual="false" />
```

where the cmp device is either `1` for the TDM arbitrated shared SPM,
`5` for the SPMs with ownership, or `6` for the SPMs with multiple owners.

The number of SPMs with ownership
is currently configured to be the same as the number of processor cores.
This can be changed in `Patmos.scala`.
The individual SPMs are displaced every 64 KB, starting at the usual
address that is used for all CMP device tests (`0xE8000000`).

The C programs for the tests are found here, e.g., for the shared SPM: 
[hello_spm.c](hello_spm.c)

For other test programs set the variable `MAIN` at your compile make call.
Following test programs are available:

 * `hello_spm.c` does simple checks on a shared SPM
 * `timing.c` measures access times (using the deadline device with random delays)
 * `single_owner.c` does a multicore test on a single SPM with ownership
 * `test_owner.c` does a multicore test with two SPMs with ownership
 * `pc.c` the producer/consumer test program

For the evaluation section in the paper we have written a producer/consumer
based synthetic benchmark: `pc.c`. It can be configured for the different
versions of of the SPM. The default version uses main memory for the buffers.
The configuration is via C based defines, which can also be passed to the
compiler with command line arguments. E.g., compilation for the shared SPM
is:

```bash
make app APP=ownspm MAIN=pc COPTS="-D DATA_LEN=4096 -D _SSPM"
```

The experiments can be execute on the Patmos emulator or with the real
hardware on an FPGA board.

## Emulator Based Testing

To compile the emulator with the selected hardware configuration run

```bash
make emulator
```

Compile the application with

```bash
make app APP=ownspm 
```

If you want to use a different test program add the `MAIN` variable, such as

```bash
make app APP=ownspm MAIN=single_owner 
```

Both make commands lead to an `.elf` file in the `tmp` folder and can be
executed with the emulator as follows:

```bash
patemu tmp/ownspm.elf
```

## FPGA Based Tesing

To run the tests on a DE2-115 board, first connect it, 
and then from `t-crest/patmos` run 
```bash
make gen synth
```
This creates Patmos. To configure the FPGA with Patmos run
```bash
make config
```
Afterwards run:
```bash
make app download APP=ownspm 
```

This compiles and downloads a simple test for the one-way shared memory.
Change `MAIN` to the appropriate test.


## The Version of the Submitted Paper

To ensure that you have the exact version of T-CREST that we have used in the
evaluation section of the paper, use the following `git` command to checkout that version:

```bash
git checkout `git rev-list -n 1 --before="2018-04-05" master`
```

This can be done in all T-CREST repositories. However, it is most important
in `patmos`.
