hardware/quartus/de10-nano-drone/README.md, before:

# DE10 Nano Configuration for Patmos

Set the board variable `BOARD=de10-nano` (best done in a local config.mk)

Change switches for FPGA configuration to:

```
+------+
|* ** *|
| *  * |
+------+
```

Probably add USB blaster permissions for: Bus 001 Device 005: ID 09fb:6810 Altera and 09fb:6010

A TTL UART is connected to GPIO pins 1 and 2 of GPIO 0. The MPU sensor is connected to GND and 3.3 V and pins 31, 32, and 33 for the AAU I2C interface or to GND, 3.3 V, and pins 38, 39, and 40 for the DTU I2C controller. Pins 6 and 5 are for the second UART and pins 20 - 13 are for the actuators and propdrives. See below.

```
SCL 40 * * 39 SDA
AD0 38 * *
       * *
       * *
    34 * * 33 AD0
SDA 32 * * 31 SCL
GND 30 * * 29 3.3V
       * *
       * *
       * *
       * *
AC3 20 * * 19 PROP3
AC2 18 * * 17 PROP2
AC1 16 * * 15 PROP1
AC0 14 * * 13 PROP0
GND 12 * * 11
       * *
       * *
txd  6 * *  5 rxd UART2
     4 * *  3
txd  2 * *  1 rxd UART
```

rxd and txd are from the Patmos view, therefore TTL UART rxd needs to
be connected to txd and the other way around.

FPGA configuration has to be done via Quartus (instead of make config).

The on-chip memory is 512 KB (instead of typical 2 MB on the DE2-115).
Therefore, the stack start needs to be set accordingly with following
linker options:

```
        -mpatmos-stack-base=0x080000 -mpatmos-shadow-stack-base=0x078000 \
        -Xgold --defsym -Xgold __heap_end=0x070000
```

Best see in the example in c/apps/de10-nano. Compile and download that example with:

```
make app APP=de10-nano download
```

This example uses the DTU controller to print our the values of the accelerometer, thermometer, and gyroscope. You can use the program that reads out from the AAU
interface with:
```
make app APP=de10-nano MAIN=blinking download
```

The acts_props_uart2 application provides the functions to interact with the actuators, propdrive, and to the second UART. N.B. only the second UART was tested. I have no way to test the actuators and propdrive. Compile and download that example with:

```
make app APP=de10-nano MAIN=acts_props_uart2 download
```

## Comments

 * The I2C interface is an adaption of the [I2C Master](https://www.digikey.com/eewiki/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=10125324) from Digi-Key,
   where further information on the interfacing can be found
 * Register definitions in C for the MPU-6050 can be found at https://playground.arduino.cc/Main/MPU-6050

## TODO

 * If needed, add external memory (the ARM boot program needs to be changed to allow access to the memory from the FPGA fabric, Florian has the solution)

Commit message:

de10-nano-drone: Added ddr3 memory

hardware/quartus/de10-nano-drone/README.md, after:

# DE10 Nano Configuration for Patmos

Set the board variable `BOARD=de10-nano` (best done in a local config.mk)

Change switches for FPGA configuration to:

```
+------+
|* ** *|
| *  * |
+------+
```

Probably add USB blaster permissions for: Bus 001 Device 005: ID 09fb:6810 Altera and 09fb:6010

A TTL UART is connected to GPIO pins 1 and 2 of GPIO 0. The MPU sensor is connected to GND and 3.3 V and pins 31, 32, and 33 for the AAU I2C interface or to GND, 3.3 V, and pins 38, 39, and 40 for the DTU I2C controller. Pins 6 and 5 are for the second UART and pins 20 - 13 are for the actuators and propdrives. See below.

```
SCL 40 * * 39 SDA
AD0 38 * *
       * *
       * *
    34 * * 33 AD0
SDA 32 * * 31 SCL
GND 30 * * 29 3.3V
       * *
       * *
       * *
       * *
AC3 20 * * 19 PROP3
AC2 18 * * 17 PROP2
AC1 16 * * 15 PROP1
AC0 14 * * 13 PROP0
GND 12 * * 11
       * *
       * *
txd  6 * *  5 rxd UART2
     4 * *  3
txd  2 * *  1 rxd UART
```

rxd and txd are from the Patmos view, therefore TTL UART rxd needs to
be connected to txd and the other way around.

FPGA configuration has to be done via Quartus (instead of make config).

The on-chip memory is 512 KB (instead of typical 2 MB on the DE2-115).
Therefore, the stack start needs to be set accordingly with following
linker options:

```
        -mpatmos-stack-base=0x080000 -mpatmos-shadow-stack-base=0x078000 \
        -Xgold --defsym -Xgold __heap_end=0x070000
```

Best see in the example in c/apps/de10-nano. 

Alternatively, it is possible to use the external 1 GB DDR3 memory. In
de10-nano-drone.xml comment the line
```
<ExtMem size="500k" DevTypeRef="OCRam" />
```
and uncomment the line
```
<ExtMem size="1g" DevTypeRef="DDR3Bridge" />
```
Additionally, download the "DE10-Nano_v.1.3.8_HWrevC_SystemCD.zip" demo cd from 
```
http://download.terasic.com/downloads/cd-rom/de10-nano/
```
and write the SD card image from Demonstrations/FPGA/SdcardImage
to an SD card which is inserted into the SD card slot of the de10 Nano.
Power on the board, and after a few seconds, program the FPGA,
allowing the FPGA to access the DDR3 memory controller.

Compile and download that example with:

```
make app APP=de10-nano download
```

This example uses the DTU controller to print our the values of the accelerometer, thermometer, and gyroscope. You can use the program that reads out from the AAU
interface with:
```
make app APP=de10-nano MAIN=blinking download
```

The acts_props_uart2 application provides the functions to interact with the actuators, propdrive, and to the second UART. N.B. only the second UART was tested. I have no way to test the actuators and propdrive. Compile and download that example with:

```
make app APP=de10-nano MAIN=acts_props_uart2 download
```

## Comments

 * The I2C interface is an adaption of the [I2C Master](https://www.digikey.com/eewiki/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=10125324) from Digi-Key,
   where further information on the interfacing can be found
 * Register definitions in C for the MPU-6050 can be found at https://playground.arduino.cc/Main/MPU-6050

## TODO
